---
title: "Message's representation in syslog-ng OSE"
id: adm-conc-msg
subtitle: >-
    When the syslog-ng OSE application's receives a message, it automatically
    parses the message. the characters |()[].*?+^$\ are used. The syslog-ng OSE application can automatically
    parse log messages that conform to the RFC3164 (BSD or legacy-syslog) or
    the RFC5424 (IETF-syslog) message formats. If syslog-ng OSE cannot parse
    a message, it results in an error. [[parser]]s are useful {% include markdown_link id='adm-about-glossary#destination' title='destination' withTooltip='yes' %}
    Again [[destination|adm-about-glossary#bom]] id=bom test
---

**TIP:** In case you need to relay messages that cannot be parsed without
any modifications or changes, use the **flags(no-parse)** option in the
source definition, and a template containing only the **\${MESSAGE}**
macro in the destination definition.
{: .notice--info}

To parse non-syslog messages, for example, JSON, CSV, or other messages,
you can use the built-in parsers of syslog-ng OSE. For details, see
[[parser: Parse and segment structured messages]].

A parsed syslog message has the following parts:

## Timestamps

Two timestamps are associated with every message: one is the
timestamp contained within the message (that is, when the sender
sent the message), the other is the time when syslog-ng OSE has
actually received the message.

## Severity

The severity of the message.

## Facility

The facility that sent the message.

## Tags

Custom text labels added to the message' that are mainly used for
filtering. None of the current message transport protocols adds tags
to the log messages. Tags can be added to the log message only
within syslog-ng OSE. The syslog-ng OSE application automatically
adds the id of the source as a tag to the incoming messages. Other
tags can be added to the message by the pattern database, or using
the tags() option of the source.

## IP address of the sender

The IP address of the host that sent the message. Note that the IP
address of the sender is a hard macro and cannot be modified within
syslog-ng OSE but the associated hostname can be modified, for
example, using rewrite rules.

## Hard macros

Hard macros contain data that is directly derived from the log
message, for example, the \${MONTH} macro derives its value from the
timestamp. The most important consideration with hard macros is that
they are read-only, meaning they cannot be modified using rewrite
rules or other means.

## Soft macros

Soft macros (sometimes also called name-value pairs) are either
built-in macros automatically generated from the log message (for
example, \${HOST}), or custom user-created macros generated by using
the syslog-ng pattern database or a CSV-parser. The SDATA fields of
RFC5424-formatted log messages become soft macros as well. In
contrast with hard macros, soft macros are writable and can be
modified within syslog-ng OSE, for example, using rewrite rules.

**NOTE:** It is also possible to set the value of built-in soft macros
using parsers, for example, to set the \${HOST} macro from the
message using a column of a CSV-parser.
{: .notice--info}

The data extracted from the log messages using named pattern parsers
in the pattern database are also soft macros.

**TIP:** For the list of hard and soft macros, see
[[Hard versus soft macros]].  
{: .notice--info}

## Message size and encoding

Internally, syslog-ng OSE represents every message as UTF-8. The maximal
length of the log messages is limited by the log-msg-size() option: if a
message is longer than this value, syslog-ng OSE truncates the message
at the location it reaches the log-msg-size() value, and discards the
rest of the message.

When encoding is set in a source (using the encoding() option) and the
message is longer (in bytes) than log-msg-size() in UTF-8
representation, syslog-ng OSE splits the message at an undefined
location (because the conversion between different encodings is not
trivial).

**Example:**

```config
options {
    stats(
        freq(1)
        level(1)
        lifetime(1000)
        max-dynamics(10000)
        syslog-stats(yes)
        stats()
    );
};
```

dfik wo hiwhf iwhg i

`multi line backticked
text`

dhkihs

---------------------

The severity of the message. `time-zone()` teszt

parser: Parse and segment structured messages

`parser: Parse and segment structured messages`

discord Sending alerts and notifications to Discord

`discord Sending alerts and notifications to Discord`

Timezones and daylight saving

`Timezones and daylight saving`

Slack destination options

[[Slack destination options]]

`Slack destination options`

Slack :destination options

Slack 'destination' options

`Options of the mqtt() destination`

[Parse bar]

Alma [[parser]] korte

[[destination]]

[[destination id=bom|adm-about-glossary#bom]]

[[destination|adm-about-glossary#bom]] id=bom

[[destination||]]

[destination|]

destination|

[destination]

<a href="/doc/admin-guide/200_About/002_Glossary#destination" class="nav-link content-tooltip">that is a destination test</a>

[[another destination|adm-about-glossary#destination]] test

{% include markdown_link id='adm-about-glossary#destination' title='destination apostroph' withTooltip='yes' %}

{% include markdown_link id="adm-about-glossary#destination" title="destination quote" withTooltip="yes" %}

message

[[message]]

For more information, see
[[Options of the kafka() destination's C implementation]].

For details, see [[The syslog-ng.conf manual page]].

## See also

[[The syslog-ng.conf manual page]]

[[The syslog-ng manual page]]

{% include doc/admin-guide/manpages-footnote.md %}

When encoding is set in a source (using the encoding() option) and the
message is longer (in bytes) than log-msg-size() in UTF-8
representation, syslog-ng OSE splits the message at an undefined
location (because the conversion between different encodings is not
trivial).

<!-- TODO: The patter spans to multiple lines that case is not handled now -->
The following is a simple configuration file for syslog-ng Open
Source Edition that collects incoming log messages and stores them
in a text file. syslog-ng Open Source Edition.

Aliast testing e.g LEVEL or PRIORITY should work like SDATA
